The Joe Rogan experience. Oh, we didn't even talk about your cult dude, right?
Yeah. We forgot. We have time. Yeah. All right. Plenty.
Of time. All right. I don't even know where to begin.
When, when did you first become part of.
The cult? So I got sent away to this coal. It was like a cold boarding school.
I was 14. I just turned 14.
And did your parents know what was going on or did they think, uh, no.
They had no idea. What did they think it was?
They heard it was for a place for troubled kids to get some help.
And then yeah, they had no idea. It was a Colt.
Wow. No idea. What was it? It was, uh, yeah, it was called.
Sea-Doo it's a C E D U.
And they called it that because you could see yourself how you want to be,
and then you do something about it.
That sounds like something that like Tony Robbins would say. Yeah. Uh, it.
Used to be,
I think it was created from originally from something called sin Anon,
which I think is more well known, but it's uh, yeah, that sounds like some.
Cheesy, not, not Tony Robbins, but like a low level,
like online motivational guy. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
What should he do
for you? You're going to see what you don't like,
and you're going to do something about it. Everybody's like, oh my God. Thanks.
For being here at the Hilton in Alhambra.
So this is pre-internet you're 14 years old. Yeah.
1993. Um, I was a cutter.
I was living in Tarzana. I grew up in Tarzana. Yeah. Ooh, big cutter.
What was that.
About? I don't know my friends doing it. No, no.
I was doing it. I don't know. I, I, my, my dad left and then I started cutting.
I kinda got in. Then I was getting into fights at school. You know, it was, uh,
punching holes in my wall. I was an angry kid. And so it was sort of an outlet,
I guess. And then they kept sending me up to the Northridge psych ward.
So I got sent away up to Northridge in the youth psych ward.
And then, uh, uh.
They, uh, I don't remember specifically.
What they said. I think they just told my parents, they,
they didn't tell me anything. I think they told my parents probably.
Your parents. Didn't like to have a sit down with you and say, Hey, psycho.
After the third.
My mom didn't know what to do, do it with me. But after the third time,
they said, after the third time I got sent up to the psych ward. They said, uh,
if you do this one more time, you know,
anything else we're going to have to send you away somewhere a little, you know,
more serious, probably. Whoa. And so I did it again.
And then, uh, we took a tour up to, they said they were,
we were just going to go up to take a tour of the school that I could be sent
away to. That was it. They said, if you do it one more time,
we're going up and we're going to tour the school.
And if you do this one more time,
then we're going to bring you back here and drop you off. You're going to stay.
And so we went up to the San Bernardino mountains and we got, um,
I got out of the car, I toured the campus. It was a beautiful campus.
It was like a, this giant cabin up near lake Arrowhead.
And it used to be owned by the Houston's, you know,
all Walter and Angelica and John Houston. Um, and, um,
and they were telling me, you know, uh,
just about the school and stuff and all the rules, there were a lot of rules.
They call them agreements. And then my parents, uh,
I came back and went and talked to my parents and they told me that, uh,
I was staying there and I just said, well, you. And then I left. And, uh,
and they strip searched me. And then, um, and that was it.
And then I went into what they call a wrap and wraps are intense.
So what the rap was is three hour long, uh,
kind of like a group therapy session, but everyone is just sort of, um,
oh my God, it was so bizarre. So I had only been at the school to two hours.
I'd just been strip searched. And I been put into one of these three hour raps.
And the, the girl next to me was like rocking back and forth on the chair,
sorta like sobbing quietly. And then the kid next to me, got up,
walked across the room and switch seats with someone.
Cause you weren't allowed to talk to someone next to you.
You had to be across the room.
And that kid started screaming at the kid right next to me over here.
And then this one just started screaming at the floor and like
started like screaming at the floor. Like I hate you, mom. I hate you dad.
And then someone started putting all the, like this Kleenex,
all these tissues too. And I'm like,
why are they putting all these tissues here?
And then you just see all this snot and spit and like mucus empty out of this,
this girl's body. Cause she's just screaming.
And like blood vessels are popping in her and she's crying and screaming.
And it was the most disgusting thing you've ever seen. And I was like,
oh my God, I'm going to be here for two and a half years.
And this is how this is going to happen. Three times a week.
There was a lot of sleep deprivation. They had, uh,
what did your parents think? It was,
they thought they were told by the counselors at the psych ward that it
was like a place for, um,
troubled kids when you didn't know what else to do with them.
So it's like programs in on it.
Yeah. Yeah. It's weird. And so I think, um.
They were fooled or do you think that they knew what was going on that maybe
they were fooled?
I think they were probably fooled. I don't think, I don't think anybody.
Pre-internet right.
This is all here to fool people because you can't do a Wiki on them. I mean,
the government finally shut them down.
So they were accredited though or something. I mean they were,
I think proved by.
Yeah, it had been, you know, around Cedar was there for,
I think since the seventies want to say, maybe even earlier,
maybe the late sixties, that's the scary.
Ones. Yeah. The ones with legs. Yeah. Yeah. You know.
But it was a really weird mix of students. It was like,
I think Paris Hilton went there at one point.
And then there was like just a lot of kids there on court orders.
And there was, um, you know, it was just a real mix, weird mix of people. Wow.
But they have these 24 hour what they call pro feats.
And they were all named after a different chapter of a book called the prophet
by Kahlil Gibran. You go through the program with the peer group.
So everybody that was enrolled at the same time as you in the same,
like two months,
you go through these almost like these rites of passages called profits.
And there were these 24 hour long workshops and they're all based around each
chapter of this book called the profit. Um,
and the first one was called the truth and it was like,
the truth will set you free.
So you basically tell everything you've ever done that you felt bad
about. Um, and, uh, it's like confessional most.
Um, and what was odd is that all the staff members were,
there were a lot of,
there were like two or three staff members who are the counselors at the school.
They'd had no real credentials. They weren't like therapists,
but they acted as therapists, but they all had up lives too.
And so, and some of them, yeah. And so some of them,
like there were people that really got off on the power, like cult leaders do.
And then there were some, um,
that were former students there that were sent away for being bad kids.
So there were staff members like confessing to heard.
One guy said claimed that he, he set a homeless guy on fire.
Another one would strangle cats. And they're like,
these are the people that are teaching.
Sleep around and duties to strangle.
No, you couldn't fall asleep in the pro uh, in the profits. Uh, oh, oh.
I mean eventually, I mean they lived off campus.
man. Uh, it sounds insane. Yeah. It was pretty wild.
They all have that element in them. That's a Scientology element too. Right.
And then also Catholicism, you have to confess, right. That's a,
there's a thing that Scientology does where they, uh,
they go over all sorts of aspects of your life and they,
they like save that. Yeah. I save all those recordings.
And then when you want to talk that like, oh, well you think about leaving. Oh,
fascinating. Yeah. We're gonna,
we're gonna tell everybody about that thing that you do with clowns. I.
Wonder why they would do it here then, because we had no power to look.
We were all under age. We, they.
Well, that's different, different organizations.
What they're doing is probably getting power over you. I mean,
it seems like that's what those things are always about.
They're always about a power.
And then it's usually the main dudes banging everybody's wife
and they get a lot of.
Money. Well, the teachers, there were teachers that were for sure,
bang in the students, there's nothing to.
Put on them going in that it was a call when you figured.
It out until it was like until like a two years after I had graduated.
Oh my God.
So two years after it's all over, you sitting around going, Hey.
I think I just started talking to someone they're like,
didn't you think that was a little weird when they did this or this or that? Or,
and I was like, oh, it's you mentioned it. Yeah.
Wait a minute. Yeah. We had to do, um, 14 days through Joshua tree,
which was beautiful, which was great. Um, but then, uh,
the four days solo where they give you like a,
a bag of trail mix and some water and a whistle and they say, all right,
we'll come back and four days, but as a 14 year old, it's like, what the?
What the? Yeah, it was intense, but.
Where was this? Where were the woods in Joshua tree?
That's a sketchy area. Yeah. 14 years in the desert. Yeah.
That's crazy. Yeah. Where are you supposed to get your water?
You had a big bag of water that was going to for four days. For four days.
How big is this bag?
Uh, I don't know.
I can't give your own bag. Yeah. Yeah. You were.
Alone. They give you an area about half the size of this room, the studio,
and they say, all right, we'll come and get you in four days. Here's four, uh,
granola bars,
a bag of trail mix and a bag of water and a whistle in case you get bit by a
rattlesnake or.
Something. Oh my God. Where are they with Zara? And then nowhere near here,
they were.
They were around and they monitor, they, I think they monitor you.
So they probably saw a lot of beaten off 14 years old.
I think I spent, most of my days, I was a 14.
Year old and I came up with a call. That would be one of the rules was a rule.
No, no, no, no. It'd be like,
you're going to all be by yourself for days for granola
bars and a bag of water. Like,
it sounds like something a 14 year old would come up with. As far as the rules,
I was like an episode of fear fact. And here's a whistle.
If you get bit by a rattler, I'll be over at the top of the hill.
You won't see me and I'll be able to hear you. Like,
that sounds like a 14 year old.
I'll never forget too. When we came out, uh,
they told us Kurt Cobain had just killed himself. It was so was 94.
But, uh, I remember if.
You get in trouble, they put you on something called a full-time. Um,
and that was never fun because it was like, uh, you, you had,
no, it was the amount of time of the full time was in the turn.
So it was based on the staff member.
It was either you ran away or you had sex with another student or?
Yeah, not me.
Snotty. Screams. Yeah. A lot of primal scream therapy,
but, but on a full-time.
Like you wake up and you have to like try and dig out a stump.
That's been there since the seventies. No one was ever going to take it out.
The biggest stump you've ever seen. I remember when I got enrolled,
the first thing I saw was a kid and a pickax. And I'm like, what the?
That's why they have dynamite. Yeah. And.
That's the dynamite. Well, they.
Used it for full-time,
but you're not allowed to laugh or sing or no human contact.
You can't talk to anybody for three weeks. Oh my God. They're mice all long.
Long was yeah. They mind you.
There was something called smushing where everybody, it was like,
you walk into this giant house at the every night and everyone is telling each
other their life stories.
But it looked like you remember Jonestown when like the 909 people had
just drank the Kool-Aid and it was just body on top of body.
That's what it looked like. Everyone's just cuddling with each other. Oh my God.
It's like, all the staff members are rubbing hair as girls.
And you're like,
this seems highly inappropriate with like girls 13 year old girl's head in their
lap. Yeah. It was, it was trippy. But yeah.
I've uh, my buddy, our buddy, Jeff Garland,
put me in touch with this fantastic writer, uh,
who writes a lot of episodes of better call Saul.
And we're almost done with our pilot. We're gonna, um, pitch it in,
in about a month. I feel like.
That's one,
that's going to be fascinating to see how they play that narrative out.
Like whether they will show that kind of,
like a 13 year old girl on a guy's lap.
Like that seems like he can't even do that.
We'll say you can't even do that in fiction. You know what I mean?
You'd have to imply it. That's a good point. Well,
fully closed. The problem is it really happened. Right.
So it's not like it's fiction. So if you were creating this kind of fiction,
you're putting it out. People would be like, what you sick.
Why did you even think of that? But you're not doing that. That's true. Yeah.
You're, you're releasing some crazy that you actually experienced.
And how many years were you there for almost three. Wow. Yeah. Some of the.
Exercises were crazy.
They did this one called lifeboat where they choose two students.
I was one of the students they chose and you're on a chair and you can only save
two people and all of your best friends and are sobbing. And they're like,
please pick me.
And you have to look each person in the eye and tell them why they, they die.
What the? And then they, and then everyone had to write their own eulogy.
weird. A girl slit her own throat. Oh Jesus. Uh,
and another kid jumped off cliff.
When they get into it in the first place. Are they doing it because they've,
it's been done to them. Like some of them clearly, right?
Some of them seems like they were a victim.
Sure. That's why I know the one who likes set the homeless guy on fire.
I know that for sure. That's why he did it. He got put through this.
He was going to inflict it on somebody else. Yeah. Garbage,
garbage people.
And then the craziest thing was maybe about seven or eight years after I
graduated. A lot of kids would split. I split, you run,
but then you get caught or you walk or you come back to the school.
Once you find out your parents, aren't going to take you out.
But a lot of kids never came back and we just that's it.
That was just the fact to the kids. We don't know what the happened to them.
They would always tell us that, uh,
the parents pulled them out of the school that some of the kids that ran away
and never came back. Oh, but it was on the side of this giant,
like almost like a cliff, this backside of a mountain.
And some kids would walk down into town through the road.
And some kids they said would run away and go down the backside of the mountain.
And they said, some kids died going down the backside. Some kids got kidnapped,
who knows. But.
Uh, I found out about seven or.
Eight years after the club was closed.
They found out that there was actually a serial killer that was working at the
school. He was like, um, like the night janitor kinda guy,
um, and confessed to murdering, uh,
like a handful of kids that we thought ran away. And, uh,
he got caught for something else. And then confess to all of these murders.
He had committed over the last decade and,
and four of them were kids while he was working up at the campus. Holy. Crazy.
And that was while I was there. Yeah.
Bonkers pretty well.
So it took you a few years.
Was it a relationship that you were in where a girl was explaining to you?
It was talking to a former students. Oh,
I started opening my eyes and I was like, oh yeah. So.
It wasn't talking to someone who wasn't in it. Great.
It was talking to someone who wasn't at. So together you were like going, Hey,
I've talked to some other people and uh, exactly.
That's not what 14 year olds do. man.
And then when Facebook, it was even longer than that.
Because then I think then when Facebook came out, then it was like,
there are all these groups and everyone's like, yeah, we were in a cold.
Once you got out and you realized you were out and you talk to all the other
people that were out too, and you all realize that you were out,
how did it affect the,
what did you have to like remap those years in your head?
Did you have to kind of think about what life is really like?
It was, it was interesting. Cause I got out when I was 16, so I had to go out.
As soon as I got out, I had two more years of high school. So I got thrown at,
uh, down the street, a Taft.
I went to Taft high school in Woodland Hills and then, um, yeah,
did a couple more years there, but it was, it was tough to get reacclimated.
And then, yeah, I, I didn't know. I had to retrain my brain.
Like I felt like I.
I knew.
It was almost like I knew what they were trying to do.
I almost felt like I was being brainwashed and we were taught to self police,
each other. And, and obviously it's like North Korea.
Style. Yeah. Yeah.
Otherwise, you know,
they would put you on a full-time and you'd have to dig out a stump.
So when you say we were forced to self police, each other,
were you forced to self police yourself or other selves and others
read up the right to.
Yeah. You'd have to write a dirt list every week.
Which I just had to cover. And how do you let go, Hey, all right. This is all.
I think it took some time and it took, it took years,
but I w I w I was one of the lucky ones. I was like, you know what? I did it,
I took, I took the positives. I was like, you know what? It wasn't all bad.
I learned some tools. And if I didn't go through that,
I wouldn't be the person I am today. And I'm not the, you know,
I'm not the worst guy in the world. So I made it out. I survived,
it. Right. I'm not gonna, there were a lot of people that wouldn't let go.
They were just hold on. And to this very day,
they hold on so tight to this bitterness and this anger and they
can't sleep at night. And all they think about is what they went through.
They lost three years of their life. I do hate that.
I do bummed out that I missed out those three years of a
[inaudible]. Yeah, that's true. Come on, man. That's true.
That's earned character. Exactly. It's like.
You know, we're talking about with Joey Diaz, like you earned this. I totally.
I, not only do I not regret it, um, there's many, many,
many days more days than not that I wish I could go back and do it all over.
Again. I swear to God. I don't know. Cause it was, it.
Was, there was, there was a comradery. There was, um, it was like,
uh, there was something about it. I, I didn't have to,
I had all that other to worry about,
but I didn't have to worry about a roof over my head job. You know,
all the other that you have to worry about as an adult.
Yeah. I'm sure exactly. Yeah. Yeah.